Joshua Ward: Morning.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Good morning. How are you
Joshua Ward: How are you as soon as I get back to late
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Oh, that's okay.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: You're not late
Joshua Ward: I thought it was at nine o'clock.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: It is. It's only 904
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Are you in New Mexico.
Joshua Ward: Oh channel for here. Yes, ma'am.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Oh, see, we're an hour apart.
Joshua Ward: Oh, okay.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: So it's perfect.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Okay.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Okay. Yeah, no worries. And if that happens just call into the virtual clinic and tell them that you have to cancel, and then we'll just resume next week. It's all right.
Joshua Ward: Oh,
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Okay.
Joshua Ward: All right.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: But I knew that you had there was a possibility.
Joshua Ward: That you have this
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Standing appointment, like we talked about
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Right.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: So no worries. You're not going to get any trouble. There's no you know no repercussions to it. You just call in and let him know that you have a call an appointment and that you have to reschedule. That's all you have to do.
Joshua Ward: Okay.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: All right.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: So tell me how things are going.
Joshua Ward: To go a lot better now that I'm getting I'm getting I'm getting a lot better now.
Joshua Ward: Can you hear me.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Yeah, I can hear you but you're going like really slow.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: So it's like
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Delay
Joshua Ward: There's a delay.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Yeah it the internet connection for some reason has just been saying
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Hey,
Joshua Ward: Yeah, I guess, and like it like I've been doing. I've been doing a lot. I'm doing a lot better now. Like I'm readjusting to being out a lot more
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Yeah, it takes time. Hmm.
Joshua Ward: As well.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: And you'll get it. You'll get in the rhythm and get into, you know, a routine and
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: You know, you'll start getting more comfortable just when things get tough. The bottom line is, is not to
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: impulsively react that's going to get you it in back into trouble, right.
Joshua Ward: Yes, ma'am.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: It's about
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Good.
Joshua Ward: I think, I think I got the like.
Joshua Ward: As far as like getting in trouble anything. Like, I don't think, I don't think I have it in
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Well, just remember that. That's the pattern of behavior that you've had for a while. And so until you create a whole new routine and you start create and you create a whole new
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Set of coping skills.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: It would be easy to react and respond, you know, in a manner that would be
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Detrimental. You know what I mean.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: So it's about teaching you new coping skills.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: So when things get tough and you've got high stress and anxiety is high and you don't know which way to go, you know that you have different skills and different you know coping skills to be able to respond to react in a healthy manner, instead of not only helping on
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Did you get all that
Joshua Ward: Is man.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Okay, so in saying that. Tell me, what are some of the things that you would like to change about your behavior.
Joshua Ward: Right now.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Yeah.
Joshua Ward: I just like
Joshua Ward: It is don't want to have. I didn't want to have the one to go out and do the things that I used to do before I went to prison. Like I just don't
Joshua Ward: Want none of that to come back into my thought process. I guess you should say, I should say.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Well, knowing and understanding that that
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Thoughts are just that.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Right. It's a thought.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: So you have a thought.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Then you have a feeling that backs up that that
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: And then you have the behavior. So you have the, the ability to stop when you're having that
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: You see what I'm saying.
Joshua Ward: Yeah.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: And to think that you know that you're always going to react to respond to things in the appropriate manner.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: I think that that is setting up for failure.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: We realistically, we know that we're human, we make mistakes. We do things that we shouldn't do. You know what I mean. And that
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: If we're practicing it a different way to respond to react to things. We're not always going to get it right.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: What we're going to try. We're going to try to get it right. Five out of five times, but it takes practice to be able to do that, right, like when you would normally
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: respond to situations out of anger. We want you to be able to stop walk away. Take a few minutes. Breathe calm yourself down.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Before
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: You make your decisions in the behavior that you're going to choose that make sense.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Okay. So in thinking about that. Tell me some of the things that you would like to like to work on.
Joshua Ward: Just like right now like
Joshua Ward: Like the one thing I really, really want to work on is my anxiety, like I want to be able to like cope with anxiety better like because I get over I get
Joshua Ward: Like when I go to new people around or it gets to viewable out around it and like, like other day like an Eastern we had, we had my, my friends, kids over all my kids, my niece's my nephews and it was just way too much for me and like a
Joshua Ward: I didn't know I like I like walk away from the whole situation like
Joshua Ward: I didn't like I didn't like not being able to handle it in the moment. You mean like it just like everybody else like it wasn't bothering nobody else. I just didn't like it. I like the fact that is bothering me like it made me feel
Joshua Ward: I don't know, I just kind of embarrassed me because like I couldn't handle it. I mean,
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Well, you got to give yourself some a little bit of leeway. And part of that, again, is because you're so new back into, you know, your reality.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Me Your weeks out. You've got to give yourself permission to be okay to go walk away and breathe and calm yourself down and
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: You know what I mean, take time out when you're in those situations. So you did the right thing and it's nothing to be embarrassed about. There's so many people right now that are struggling with
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: You know what I mean, anxiety, like that. It's not even funny.
Joshua Ward: Was just like I have is easy for me to talk to you than it is my family because they have never been there like an open person like that with my family like
Joshua Ward: They get it when I walk away here, but I'm I come back here, but it's like, Are you okay with matter was wrong. And I'm like, I'm like, I get embarrassed. Like, and I don't like to
Yeah.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: So what was your response when they said that to you.
Joshua Ward: I just said it again, just, I just got overwhelmed.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Okay, there's nothing wrong with that. Because that's the truth. Right.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: And there's nothing wrong to say, you know what I have to go to the bathroom or I need to take a walk. I'll be back in a few
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Guys enjoy yourself. I'll be that
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: You know,
Joshua Ward: This man.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: You know, you know what that's called.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Self care.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Taking care of yourself meeting your needs, you know,
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Um, and the longer that you that you practice it. And the longer that you're you know re
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Getting back into your routine, the easier it's going to get. But you got to give yourself, you know, a little bit of compassion and know that you just spent six years of your life.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: You know what I mean is small, confined structure place.
Joshua Ward: Yeah.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: How are things going as far as communication.
Joshua Ward: Other than like
Joshua Ward: Like I have a hard time like
Joshua Ward: With people asking me, my feelings like I just don't like I have a hard time opening up and I should be able to, because the ones that are asking me and they're the ones that care for me, the ones that have been there for me, but I just have a hard time
Joshua Ward: Like I have a hard time just telling them because like I get embarrassed. Like, like with you, like, I don't know you. So like it's weird, but I had to have been open up with
Joshua Ward: You, but my family like they're so used to me just closing off and like
Joshua Ward: I feel, I feel I felt more awkward talking to them because there's like they're not used to me doing it. So like I'm I don't know how to I don't know how to go about it.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Makes sense.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: You know,
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: And you just got to learn how to do it. One moment at a time.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: You know, got to take you take a deep breath and it's going to be a little bit of stepping out of your comfort zone.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: And being okay with being outside of your comfort zone.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: And that's an uncomfortable place for us to be
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: But the more that you practice it, the better at it. You're going to get
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: And you have to remember to that. A lot of times
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Our upbringing and this is generational so you have to remember this, that the way that we communicate has a lot to do with the way that we are raised you know society says
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: That men are supposed to take care of the family. Bring the bright home be the tough one. Be the strong one.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: You know, they, they don't cry. They don't feel, you know, I mean, that has been a general upbringing for for men for
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: aeons of years.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: And so trying to learn how to to be in touch with your feelings express your feelings and not feel
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Like you're vulnerable because that's really, really the issue when you get connected with your feelings and you start talking about it with the people that you love you feel vulnerable.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: And you have not been in a vulnerable place or been able to be in a vulnerable place in New Years. It's just not something that you do when you're in prison. First off,
Joshua Ward: Yeah.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: So it's going to take work. Josh, and it's going to take, you know, again, a lot of feeling uncomfortable doing it before you get comfortable.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Doing it
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: That makes sense.
Joshua Ward: Yes.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Yes or no.
Joshua Ward: Is it. Yes.
Okay.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: He came through them.
Joshua Ward: I can break. You're breaking up.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Um, how have you been walking through them.
Joshua Ward: Through
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Your triggers and your cravings.
Joshua Ward: I really haven't like this box is really like.
Joshua Ward: It's been like it's been really good like
Joshua Ward: So that's the way I would coping with. It was just, it's just the Suboxone
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: But you still have
Joshua Ward: It sometimes. Sometimes I do, and like when I do, I just take this box and I'm fine though.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: So you have to know that that's normal to
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: To have triggers and to think
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Every beginning. Yeah.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Can you hear me.
Joshua Ward: Yeah, the phone, your phone keeps like freezing
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: I don't know what is going on with the internet, um,
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Anyways, a trigger has it's a thought. So it can end if you allow it to
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Understand that
Joshua Ward: There's no
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: So when you're in when you're having a trigger or you're having a thought of use. You've got to change it. You've got to get your mind out of that thought and get it on to something else.
Joshua Ward: But like I've changed. I've changed a lot of my five
Joshua Ward: I don't go like I just I just surround myself with my family and my kids and like I don't go out I don't go out and see none of my friends and
Joshua Ward: I don't know that I've just been staying home and hanging out my kids and my family like I am been going out of doing nothing. So like they haven't, haven't been around and
Joshua Ward: I haven't been around those situations where I've had to be around it or anything so like I really haven't had that problem yet, but I don't think I will. Because like I have no one to even be around.
Joshua Ward: None of the people that used to hang around with or anything like that. So as far as that goes. Like, I think I'll be all right, because
Joshua Ward: I've seen a couple people like a Walmart that I saying around with, and like I didn't even acknowledge them. I just tried to dump my head and walk past him.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: So there, there comes a point where you
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Aren't going to want donkey donkey duck your head anymore.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Yeah, well, you can walk through that Walmart and you're going to be proud of the person that you're becoming and it doesn't matter who the, you know, you
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: You're going to hold your head up high.
And be proud of who you are.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: That make sense.
Yes, ma'am.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: You know, because right now with this whole quarantine thing going on. I think that you actually got out of prison and a right time because it's given you, you know, this ability to get adjusted and your family unit first
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Right before you have to, you know, before you have to go get a job and and and get into routine outside of the house with working and stuff like that. And that I think is where you'll find
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: More trials and tribulations around your sobriety right now because you have your house and having family and and we're in this whole quarantine.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Thing you know it's limited. And it's good that it's limited because it gives you an opportunity to build up for when you do have to be outside, you know, outside the home.
Joshua Ward: Yeah.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: And you know what I mean. You want you to be proud of the person that you are to
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: And not have to worry, you know, and when you see those people over be able to
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Walk, you know,
Yeah.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: That makes sense.
Joshua Ward: Just fine.
Okay.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: So tell me, are you
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: What are you doing as far as any kind of
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Support for your recovery.
Joshua Ward: I just talked to you guys, that's it. Like, I haven't really been leaving the house like I got one time I leave the house is like when I had to go like, I went to Walmart go times and I gonna have to go do my stuff for my P. O. That's it.
Joshua Ward: Like there's nothing like there's no
Joshua Ward: But I have, I have a sister was in recovery to and like, like I can say that like I've like I've talked to her about it like
Joshua Ward: Because she's, she's been doing really good. She's the one that got me like involved with you guys to get on the Suboxone and because like she's been she's been sober for for three years now, and like she was really bad to
Joshua Ward: Happen.
Joshua Ward: I haven't been an old me. I haven't been in all meetings and up like that, but
Joshua Ward: Because there's nothing, there's nothing really open like there's nothing going on right now.
Yeah.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: What has she been doing lately. As far as staying connected through this whole thing.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: You know she's
Joshua Ward: She's just been staying home and
Joshua Ward: Cuz because there's nothing really going on like she's like, because she was going to na na meetings and stuff, but like, since all this happened like there's nothing going on. So she's
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Busy so
Joshua Ward: It just stays home too.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Well, don't forget you can always go online and go engage in a meeting.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: If you need to, you know,
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: They're not hard, but it's my understanding that they're like 200 strong
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: You know, right now, because everybody is is going online.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: There's na online virtual A is what it's called. And there's a meetings online smart recoveries online so you don't really technically have to go anywhere. You can engage in self help meetings and stay connected online until you're able to attend meetings, just like you do here.
Joshua Ward: Yeah.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Where were you going to meetings when you were in prison.
Joshua Ward: I was in a our debt program. It was a
Joshua Ward: drug rehabilitation program.
Mm.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Hmm me some of the work that you did in
Joshua Ward: Well, they had us do a bunch of like there's there's different phases to the program. It's like phase one, phase two, phase three
Joshua Ward: And there's a cadre of phase and Phase one is like you pretty much tell your life story how you started using drugs.
Joshua Ward: Phase two is like how you're gonna how you're going to
Joshua Ward: Deal with deal with coping with your drug today when you go home and Phase three was more like is like setting goals for yourself and
Joshua Ward: I'm making plans through and they get out and face and catch a phase, like you're in, you're in the phase, like you're like You help you help everybody else that's new in the program mean like
Joshua Ward: I passed and i i finished a whole program.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: What kind of did you do any book where
Joshua Ward: I did it. All I did all of it.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: What do you remember what the book was called
Joshua Ward: Um,
Joshua Ward: I don't, they're there. They just, they are dab on them. I don't know. I don't know what they are like his
Joshua Ward: Car
Joshua Ward: On the books like they don't have like in one of these are deaf.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: And I look really fast.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Residential drug use program.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Um, the reason why I was asking is because there's like several different
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Programs and I was just kind of, I want to kind of run concurrent with what you've been doing
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Is the work
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: I'm
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: So,
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Document a history of dependence document a pattern of problems that have resulted from dependence.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Document how you built up a tolerance requiring heavier doses to achieve.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: intended result.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Did you do these things.
Joshua Ward: Yes.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Withdrawal symptoms you had to document withdrawal symptoms.
Joshua Ward: Yeah, new ball that like
Joshua Ward: Triggers and
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Document how substance abuse has influenced your daily activities and responsibilities.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Document how it's led to hazardous situations, how it's led to troubles with the law.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: How substance abuse has led to significant social interpersonal problems.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: And all that stuff. He had to document.
Joshua Ward: This
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: So you have the work with you.
Joshua Ward: Do a
Joshua Ward: Know I did that I did all those in prison.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: You left him there.
Joshua Ward: Yeah, you had to turn a man and they graded them.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Oh,
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: And what was your grade.
Joshua Ward: Was not like a passing or failing grade like they just wanted to make sure you weren't just faking it to make it. You mean like they wanted to do like the social workers like they would
Joshua Ward: Make sure you weren't because there's a lot of dudes in there that just go in there to get because they're mandated and like they'll go in there and paid. There's other dudes that go in there and they're mandated to
Joshua Ward: To do the programs. So they'll go on there and they'll just they'll pay people to do their, their books for them. And so like
Joshua Ward: As far as I mean like great them but like they would go through and make sure everything that that you wrote down for that week it pretty much matches up with what you said before you mean
Joshua Ward: Make sure you weren't like having somebody else do your work for you and
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Then they get caught.
Joshua Ward: Oh, yeah.
Joshua Ward: I mean, that was the thing because like in a cadre Bay's like sometimes you have to go in the offices and help raise
Joshua Ward: The books, you mean and
Joshua Ward: Like the biggest thing is people don't realize that they you have somebody else do your book for you like your handwriting is different from everybody else's like
Joshua Ward: That's the big biggest thing that will get people caught and then at the, at the end of the week, like you have to do your booklet. There's like
Joshua Ward: Different pages every week and like their space one group their space to group next phase three group. Well, each week.
Joshua Ward: Each group goes like through the book. I mean, so at the end of the week. Like, you don't know if you're going to be called on to be to talk about what you went went over that week.
Joshua Ward: So if you get
Joshua Ward: So like after them. We don't do that until after they go through the book. So like if they think that you had somebody else do your books for you, they would
Joshua Ward: They would call on you and be like, Well, what did you think about this part and then other books. One of them, so they call them out on it. I mean, but
Yeah.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: That's funny. So tell me, how were you able to
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: To work through or write down or discuss your feelings why you're going through that.
Joshua Ward: Well, it's easy, it's really easier for me to write down my feelings. Because like I can express myself a whole lot better.
Joshua Ward: On on paper because like there's no nervousness, there's no
Like
Joshua Ward: It's just me in the paper you I mean nobody else and
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: So have you been journaling since you've been home.
Joshua Ward: I haven't
Hmm.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: That might be, you know, a good place to start.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: When you're having when your anxiety is high when you're struggling with being around people, when you're struggling with a trigger when you're
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Stressed out
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Being able to write it out on paper.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: And learning how to leave it on paper.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: And then come back and review it in another 24 hours.
Joshua Ward: Yeah.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: When you go back and you look at it in 24 hours and you read it off a piece of paper. It just doesn't seem It's like it takes the power out of it.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Right out of it out of the stress out of those feelings.
Joshua Ward: When we talk about that because I get it, I can see myself doing that. Like when I get aggravated just write it into like a journal like I did in our debt program.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Yeah.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: And then bring you know you can bring it to our individual sessions that we can discuss it and talk about, you know, the scenario and how you got through it and how you can continue to get through stuff like that, you know,
Joshua Ward: Yeah.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: So there's your first assignment.
Joshua Ward: Or I will
Joshua Ward: Be no book today.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Okay, and you just, you know, and again, this is why I wanted to know the program that you went through and kind of take a look at everything that you've already you know worked through. Now we've got to build off of what you learned in there right
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Okay, and so that first step because you know you are comfortable with writing
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: That's why it's going to be important for you to be able to sit down and put on paper, those feelings that you're struggling with sharing, you know, with your family.
Joshua Ward: Yeah, all right. I could do that.
Joshua Ward: And then it will be so much silence, whenever we have our meetings like I could just go over what I've went
Joshua Ward: Through the other week.
Joshua Ward: Like sense right
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Okay, so that is what we're going to what we're going to start working on in the beginning.
Joshua Ward: All right.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: All right, and
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: I encourage you to check out online meetings.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Just check it out. Just go engage in one, you don't have to. I'm not saying you have to go into a virtual meeting and and speak or do anything but just go in and witness
Joshua Ward: Okay.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: See what it's a, you know, see what it's about. I had one client that went in and didn't even turn on our video she just, you know, observed
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: To see if it was you know something she was comfortable with and that's okay too.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Because at least you're willing to step outside your comfort zone and and check it out.
Joshua Ward: All right.
Joshua Ward: And what is it called,
Let me
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Oh, I can't because I don't have chat anymore. It's called virtual and a
Joshua Ward: Virtual
Joshua Ward: Yeah, I'll check it out.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: And if it's something that you're comfortable with. Then, you know, try to go a try to attend once every couple days or you know as needed.
Joshua Ward: Okay, you know,
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: When your head starting to get to flip on that that computer screen and go in because it's my understanding that they go 24 hours a day every hour.
Joshua Ward: Okay.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: That sounds like a plan.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: This man. So the idea is to get you to continue with the coping skills you learned in your
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Art program and
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Kind of strengthen you know those skills so that when you do go back to work and you are out in society, you're going to have different things that you're going to be able to do instead of reverting back to
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Relapse
Joshua Ward: All right.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: That makes sense.
Joshua Ward: Is there.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Anything else that you can think of at this moment that you want to work on.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: To big one.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: The biggest one.
Joshua Ward: I think i think i think we pretty much covered like like I'm really not having like I'm not, I'm not having to cope with anything really. Because of this lockdown. So like, there's not really much that
Joshua Ward: There's not really much like I haven't had to really deal with no triggers or anything really yet yeah I mean like
Joshua Ward: Other than dealing with myself, like all the time per diem having to deal with right now. It's pretty much myself.
Joshua Ward: Like I haven't had to deal with outside like being around
Joshua Ward: People that I used to hang around with or anything like that. Like right now, I'm just have to deal with my own thoughts and my own my own demons.
Joshua Ward: I think I might have to do
Joshua Ward: Well, like
Like I'm doing I'm doing good.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Okay, so this is where we'll start
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: All right.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: What do you how do you get outside of your head when you your head starts getting to you.
Joshua Ward: I'll just, like, like when I went, I went to my sister, one day, like I started like
Joshua Ward: I was sitting here talking to talking to my nephew and like he was talking about. He was talking about.
Joshua Ward: Using and this and that and like when he left like I was trying. I was trying to comfort him and tell him I live. You don't want to go down the same road that I went down.
Joshua Ward: And go back and does I do you want to be in prison. Like, because he all he talks about how much he missed me when I was in prison anything. I was like,
Joshua Ward: They do you want deals. I do want to be. You want to be a statistic like your Uncle George. So you want to just be locked up your whole life. I was like, don't get into it because he's not like
Joshua Ward: He's just getting into the, into it and like he's like I'm trying to get him. I'm trying to influence them. I
Joshua Ward: I opened up and told him a lot. I was like, I was like, you don't want to go to prison. Like I was like I told him a lot of things that
Joshua Ward: And after like after I talked to him like
Joshua Ward: Like just sitting there talking about using and doing the things I did like it made me like
Joshua Ward: It made me kind of like
Joshua Ward: I wouldn't say miss it. But like
Joshua Ward: But there are parts of me like that, that did missy. I mean,
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Like
Joshua Ward: There's things. There's things about what I was doing that I was missing. I mean,
Yeah.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Yeah, and that's okay to identify that, you know, because it certainly isn't all bad, you know,
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: But knowing that there are parts you know that you do miss and being able to change that thought to
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Do something more productive in your recovery. You know, there are going to be those pieces. But you have to remember that, you know, you want a better life.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: And although you miss those pieces there.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: There's a lot better and bigger things that you can and will be doing
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: From this day forward. Does that make sense.
Joshua Ward: There's no
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: It's good that you were able to walk him through that.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: You know,
Joshua Ward: Yeah.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Be in there for others. How did that make you feel
Joshua Ward: Me feel really good because my nephew. Like, like, like before I started getting like definitely like he always looked up to me like he's older now. You mean like
Joshua Ward: And like, you're so good to me and like I just I just told him I was like it was like I was like, I know I let. I let a lot of people down in my life. I was like, you don't want to. You don't want that burden on your shoulders and like
Joshua Ward: It was a real Israel emotional talk with me. I mean,
Joshua Ward: I don't like I don't like that was the part that bothered me the most was getting emotional front of people you I mean like, but like it does feel good to help build the is like I felt like I really helped him out. He me. Yeah.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: And I bet you that emotion driving it helped them out the most
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: You know, you have to know that.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Emotion is important to be able to feel
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: So when you're helping somebody having emotion behind it shows how passionate you are about the subject.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: It's that connection.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: You know that he probably really needed from you.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: You know,
Joshua Ward: Yeah.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: You thinking about going in and watching
I'm trying to think of an example.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Going to school and sitting in front of a professional
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Who's trying to explain situations to you without any kind of emotion behind what they're telling you
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Makes the information empty.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: That makes sense.
Joshua Ward: Yeah.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: It's then just book book work, so to speak.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Yeah, right.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Being able to to have the information and put that emotion behind it shows the intensity of what you experienced with it and then that's the connection with the other person.
Joshua Ward: Yeah, that's in my
Joshua Ward: In our depth, it would have us do our books. And then at the end of the week, they would have a share what we what we went through. Yeah, I mean, so
Joshua Ward: It's like it helped a lot like like I'm really glad I did the program.
Yeah.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Yeah, I definitely think that there were benefits and you've been able to do that because it kind of gave you a
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Like a step ahead when you came out.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Because you have all this information here.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Right.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: See that's the thing is that you already have you already have skills that you've built going through that program. Now we've just got to solidify them now that you're out in
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: The real world.
Joshua Ward: Yeah.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: You know,
Joshua Ward: As well.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: So,
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: We're going to work on emotion regulation, we're going to work on you being able to stay in touch with your emotions.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: And that hide them or be embarrassed of them or think that you are less than because you have them because none of that is true.
Okay.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: All right.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Okay. So, your first assignment is to start journaling.
Joshua Ward: Okay.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: So when you find yourself in a stressful situation you find your anxiety. Hi.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: put pen to paper.
Joshua Ward: Okay.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Try to identify what is causing that to rise and write it out.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Excuse me.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Also, when you're going through it.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Making sure that you're breathing from your abdomen, not your chest, deep, deep breaths.
Joshua Ward: Okay.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: You've got to while you're going through that change what's going on inside your head.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: You know what I mean. Kind of work on that thought process that it helps you slow your breathing.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: And helps you calm hearings it
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: While you're writing it out.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Okay, you just have to. You just have to remember in your head that you don't have to be perfect.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: That you're learning how to do things different.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: You have to keep that in the forefront of your mind, instead of those self defeating thoughts that we always get. I'm never going to get this, you know, this is too hard.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: I'm not good enough.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: You know, all of those negative thoughts that we have in our head when we are struggling with completing something or doing something
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: You know what I'm talking about.
Joshua Ward: Yeah.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: So we want to combat those. All right.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Okay, because their lives.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: They're just, you know, self loathing statements that we have implanted in our brain that we need to remove
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Because they're not true. You know what I mean.
Yeah, okay.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: So there's your first assignment.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: All right. Um,
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Does this time work for you or no. Should I remember we are going to look at Whitney at a different time.
Joshua Ward: Um,
Joshua Ward: Yeah, actually the mornings. All right, like
Joshua Ward: This time, this time 10 O'clock would be perfect for me, but I thought it was a nine o'clock, that's why.
Joshua Ward: I get stressed out, like, because I had to go to give you a this morning and like I have to call in and 730 and then I gotta drive over there. If I have to go. But I, I thought it was a nine o'clock. My time it is nine o'clock, your time at 10 o'clock. My time yeah yeah 10 o'clock. Fine.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: My turn. Okay. Alright, so let's just from. Now from this point forward, this is a time that we're going to meet so nine o'clock. My time 10 o'clock, your time.
Joshua Ward: Okay.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Okay.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: All right, so I'm gonna let you go.
Joshua Ward: So next Tuesday.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Deadlock your time nine o'clock, my time.
Okay.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: All right.
So bring her journal
Joshua Ward: Alright.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Alright, and let's start getting to work.
Joshua Ward: So as far as like the the meeting with with the with everybody is that Thursday or Friday.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: What are you in
Joshua Ward: I'm
Joshua Ward: Like
Joshua Ward: We did.
Joshua Ward: Last week we did on Friday.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Where you grew up yesterday. No. Oh, Friday, you're with Christian Dr. Chris all men, huh.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Yeah, okay. Yeah, it's Friday every Friday and
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Here's the time difference, it messes me up. I have to be there 1230 which means you have to be there at 130
Joshua Ward: Okay.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: So it's every Friday that you're in group and then every Tuesday that you're in individuals every Friday at 130 every Tuesday at 10am your time.
Joshua Ward: Okay, I got it.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Right, okay. And I'm going to reach out to Dr. Armand right now. Let them know that you came that you and I have a weekly set schedule so he knows and he'll ask you on Friday. Did you make your individual
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: You know, are you, you know, are you doing, you're engaging and your therapy.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: And if there is a point and generally are able to talk to him before group. So if you have to go in and you way at the same time that our meeting is to understand that he won't understand it if it's every week, but he'll understand it if it happens once in a while.
Okay.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: So no worries there. All right. All right.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Okay.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Are you
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: All right, you have an awesome weekend. I will see you in a couple days in group.
Joshua Ward: All right. Thank you.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Okay. Bye Josh